---
layout: single
classes: wide
title: "Running jobs"
permalink: /running-jobs
sidebar:
  nav: "docs"
---

## A basic single-node job
In order to run an instance of a container, running the command defined in the image’s entrypoint, all you need to do is to specify the Docker Hub image name:
```
prominence create eoscprominence/testpi
```

> output

```
Job created with id 3101
```
When a job has been successfully submitted an (integer) ID will be returned. Alternatively, a command (and arguments) can be specified. For example:
``` 
prominence create centos:7 "/bin/sleep 100"
``` 
The command of course should exist within the container. If arguments need to be specified you should put the command and any arguments inside a single set of double quotes, as in the example above.

To run multiple commands inside the same container, use `/bin/bash -c` with the commands enclosed in quotes and seperated  by semicolons, for example:
```
prominence create centos:7 "/bin/bash -c \"date; sleep 10; date\""
```
This is of course assuming `/bin/bash` exists inside the container image.

## MPI jobs
To run an MPI job, you need to specify either `--openmpi` for Open MPI, `--intelmpi` for Intel MPI and `--mpich` for MPICH. For multi-node jobs the number of nodes required should also be specified. For example:
```
prominence create --openmpi --nodes 4 alahiff/openmpi-hello-world:latest /mpi_hello_world
```
For MPI jobs `cpus` and `memory` refer to the number of CPU cores per node and memory per node, not the totals summed across all nodes.

The number of processes to run per node is assumed to be the same as the number of cores available per node. If the number of cores available per node is more than the requested number of cores all cores will be used.
This behaviour can be changed by using `--procs-per-node` to define the number of processes per node to use. This can be useful if you want to ensure that the number of processes
per node is fixed and won't depend on the size of the machines.

Unlike single-node jobs, a command to run (and optionally any arguments) must be specified. If an entrypoint is defined in the container image it will be ignored.

**Note:** If the total number of CPUs required is small, e.g. 16 cores or less, for best performance use a single node rather than multiple nodes. This is especially important on resources which do not have low-latency network interconnects.
{: .notice--info}

## Hybrid MPI-OpenMP jobs
In this situation the number of MPI processes to run per node must be specified using `--procs-per-node` and the environment variable OMP_NUM_THREADS should be set to the required number of OpenMP threads per MPI process.

In the following example we have 2 nodes with 4 CPUs each, and we run 2 MPI processes on each node, where each MPI process runs 2 OpenMP threads:
```
prominence create --cpus 4 \
                  --memory 4 \
                  --nodes 2 \
                  --procs-per-node 2 \
                  --openmpi \
                  --env OMP_NUM_THREADS=2 \
                  --artifact https://github.com/lammps/lammps/archive/stable_12Dec2018.tar.gz \
                  --workdir lammps-stable_12Dec2018/bench \
                  alahiff/lammps-openmpi-omp "lmp_mpi -sf omp -in in.lj"
```

## Resources
By default a job will be run with 1 CPU and 1 GB memory but this can easily be changed.
The following resources can be specified:
* CPU cores
* Memory (total memory for the job in GB)
* Disk (in GB)
* Maximum runtime (in mins)

CPU cores and memory can be specified using the `--cpus` and `--memory` options. A disk size can also be specified using `--disk`.

Here is an example running an MPI job on 4 nodes where each node has 2 CPUs and 8 GB memory, there is a shared 20 GB disk accessible by all 4 nodes, and the maximum runtime is 1000 minutes:
```
prominence create --openmpi --nodes 4 --cpus 2 --memory 8 --disk 20 --runtime 1000 alahiff/geant4mpi:1.3a3
```
By default a 10 GB disk is available to jobs, which is located on separate block storage. For MPI jobs the disk is available across all nodes running the job. The default maximum runtime is 720 minutes.

## Working directory
By default the current working directory is scratch space made available inside the container. The path to this directory is also specified by the environment variables HOME, TEMP and TMP.

To specify a different working directory use `--workdir`.

**Note:** Remember that you should not try to write inside the container's filesystem as this may be prevented by the container runtime or result in permission problems.
{: .notice--warning}

## Multiple tasks in a single job
By default a job will run a single command inside a single container. However, it is possible to instead run multiple sequential tasks within a single job. Each task will have access to the same temporary storage, so transient files generated by one task are accessible by other tasks. If more than one task uses the same container image, the container image will only be pulled once and the
cached image used for any further tasks using the same image.

To run multiple tasks in a single job requires the user to define a JSON job description which can then be submitted using the CLI. A simple way to do this is to start by using `prominence create --dry-run` (see [here](/docs/job-description-files)) to create the JSON description for a job with a single task, and then modify this as necessary.

Below a simple example is shown which runs a CentOS container followed by a Ubuntu container:
```json
{
  "name": "multiple-tasks",
  "resources": {
    "nodes": 1,
    "cpus": 1,
    "memory": 1,
    "disk": 10
  },
  "tasks": [
    {
      "image": "centos:7",
      "cmd": "cat /etc/redhat-release",
      "runtime": "singularity"
    },
    {
      "image": "ubuntu:16.04",
      "cmd": "cat /etc/debian_version",
      "runtime": "singularity"
    }
  ]
}
```
Assuming the above is stored in a file called `single-job-multiple-tasks.json`, it can be submitted by running:
```
prominence run single-job-multiple-tasks.json
```

**Note:** Different tasks do not have to use the same container runtime. It is possible for some tasks to use udocker while others use Singularity.
{: .notice--info}

### Task failures and retries
If multiple tasks are defined and a task fails (i.e. the exit code is not 0), no more tasks will be executed. 

It is possible to failing tasks to be retried but by default this will not happen.
A maximum number of retries can be specified by including `maximumRetries` in the job definition, e.g.
```json
"policies": {
  "maximumRetries": 2
}
```

